Now that we have the groundwork laid for analysis,
analyst, business analyst, and the activities they perform,
along with the many designations of a business analyst and
extraneous titles of roles people perform,
let's take a shot at defining the technical business analyst.
A technical business analyst is a business analyst who,
in addition to typical business analyst skills we
discussed earlier in this module,
also employs more complex analysis and technical tools,
possesses greater business and technical understanding of systems,
and can communicate with a richer and deeper level to both
the business and the technical communities.
Let's not forget, though,
a technical business analyst is no different than most
business analysts in that they still need the basic skills
that all analysts should have, such as oral and written communication skills,
interpersonal, consultative, and facilitation skills,
analytical thinking and problem solving,
being detail oriented, and capable of delivering a high level of accuracy,
organizational skills and, of course,
knowledge of the business structure of where they work.
And here are a few more items.
Stakeholder analysis.
What I mean by this is you need to identify your stakeholders,
and this may be harder than you think, and analyze their needs,
which could vary widely.
You need to seek out the stakeholders who have a vested interest in the
requirements with which the project is concerned.
Requirements engineering refers to the process that defining,
documenting, and maintaining requirements during the design process.
This can be quite challenging and complex on larger projects,
spanning multiple departments with competing in ever-changing needs.
Cost benefit analysis.
Now this is the systematic approach to estimating the strengths
and weaknesses of alternatives used to determine options which
provide the best approach to achieving the intended business
outcomes in the most affordable way.
Process modeling.
This is the activity of representing processes of an enterprise
so that the current process may be analyzed,
improved, and automated.
This also requires a high business acumen to capture the as is process,
validate among the stakeholders, and design improvements,
understanding of networks, databases, and other technologies.
Now I will address this in much more detail in the module Bridging The Gap,
as well as a little later in this module as well since much of the
technical BA's job is in fact more technical in nature,
and much, much more of course.
This is just a partial list to give you the basic stuff, if you will, that the technical BA must also be expert in.